README.md, before:

astro
===

\cond [![MIT license](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg)](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/kartikkumar/astro.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/kartikkumar/astro) [![Coverity Scan Build Status](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/3697/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/3697) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/kartikkumar/astro/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/kartikkumar/astro?branch=master) \endcond

astro is a C++ (template) library that provides basic astrodynamics functionality. It is intended to be lightweight and simple to use in other projects. A CMake module is available to make it easy to include astro in other CMake-based projects: [Findastro.cmake](https://github.com/openastro/cmake-modules/blob/master/Modules/Findastro.cmake).

Features
------

  - Header-only, zero-dependency
  - Orbital element conversions
  - Methods related to the 2-Body Problem
  - Useful physical constants
  - Full suite of tests

Requirements
------

To install this project, please ensure that you have installed the following (install guides are provided on the respective websites):

  - [Git](http://git-scm.com)
  - A C++ compiler, e.g., [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/), [clang](http://clang.llvm.org/), [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)
  - [CMake](http://www.cmake.org)
  - [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org "Doxygen homepage") (optional)
  - [Gcov](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Gcov.html) (optional)
  - [LCOV](http://ltp.sourceforge.net/coverage/lcov.php) (optional)

The following dependencies are optional (see `Build options`):

  - [Catch2](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2) (unit testing library necessary for `BUILD_TESTS` build option)

These dependencies will be downloaded and configured automagically if not already present locally (requires an internet connection).

Installation
------

Run the following commands to download, build, and install this project.

    git clone https://www.github.com/openastro/astro
    cd astro
    git submodule init && git submodule update
    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake .. && cmake --build .

To install the header files, run the following from within the `build` directory:

    make install

Note that dependencies are installed by fetching them online, in case they cannot be detected on your local system. If the build process fails, check the error log given. Typically, building fails due to timeout. Simply run the `cmake --build .` command once more.

Build options
-------------

You can pass the following, general command-line options when running CMake:

  - `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX[=$install_dir]`: set path prefix for install script (`make install`); if not set, defaults to usual locations
  - `-DBUILD_DOXYGEN_DOCS[=ON|OFF (default)]`: build the [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org "Doxygen homepage") documentation ([LaTeX](http://www.latex-project.org/) must be installed with `amsmath` package)
  - `-DBUILD_TESTS[=ON|OFF (default)]`: build tests (execute tests from build-directory using `ctest -V`)
  - `-DBUILD_DEPENDENCIES[=ON|OFF (default)]`: force local build of dependencies, instead of first searching system-wide using `find_package()`

The following commands are conditional and can only be set if `BUILD_TESTS = ON`:

 - `-DBUILD_COVERAGE_ANALYSIS[=ON|OFF (default)]`: build code coverage using [Gcov](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Gcov.html) and [LCOV](http://ltp.sourceforge.net/coverage/lcov.php) (both must be installed; requires [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/) compiler; execute coverage analysis from build-directory using `make coverage`)

Pass these options either directly to the `cmake ..` command, e.g., to build the tests:

    cmake -DBUILD_TESTS=on ..

N.B.: Toggling options to build tests using `ccmake` does not work correctly, as the necessarily libraries are not download automagically!

Project structure
-------------

This project has been set up with a specific file/folder structure in mind. The following describes some important features of this setup:

  - `cmake/Modules`: Contains `CMake` modules, including `Findastro.cmake` module
  - `docs`: Contains code documentation generated by [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org "Doxygen homepage")
  - `include/astro`: Project header files (*.hpp)
  - `scripts`: Shell scripts used in [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/ "Travis CI homepage") build
  - `test`: Project test source files (*.cpp) that are provided to the [Catch2](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2 "Catch2 Github repository") framework
  - `.travis.yml`: Configuration file for [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/ "Travis CI homepage") build, including static analysis using [Coverity Scan](https://scan.coverity.com/ "Coverity Scan homepage") and code coverage using [Coveralls](https://coveralls.io "Coveralls.io homepage")
  - `CMakeLists.txt`: main `CMakelists.txt` file for project (should not need to be modified for basic build)
  - `Dependencies.cmake`: list of dependencies and automated build, triggered if dependency cannot be found locally
  - `Doxyfile.in`: [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org "Doxygen homepage") configuration file, adapted for generic use within project build (should not need to be modified)
  - `LICENSE.md`: license file for project
  - `ProjectFiles.cmake`: list of project source files to build
  - `README.md`: project readme file, parsed as main page for [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org "Doxygen homepage") documentation

Contributing
------------

Once you've made your great commits:

1. [Fork](https://github.com/openastro/astro/fork) astro
2. Create a topic branch - `git checkout -b my_branch`
3. Push to your branch - `git push origin my_branch`
4. Create a [Pull Request](http://help.github.com/pull-requests/) from your branch
5. That's it!

Disclaimer
------

The copyright holders are not liable for any damage(s) incurred due to improper use of astro.

Commit message:

Add TODO items to main readme file. [skip ci]

README.md, after:

astro
===

\cond [![MIT license](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg)](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/kartikkumar/astro.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/kartikkumar/astro) [![Coverity Scan Build Status](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/3697/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/3697) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/kartikkumar/astro/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/kartikkumar/astro?branch=master) \endcond

astro is a C++ (template) library that provides basic astrodynamics functionality. It is intended to be lightweight and simple to use in other projects. A CMake module is available to make it easy to include astro in other CMake-based projects: [Findastro.cmake](https://github.com/openastro/cmake-modules/blob/master/Modules/Findastro.cmake).

Features
------

  - Header-only, zero-dependency
  - Orbital element conversions
  - Methods related to the 2-Body Problem
  - Useful physical constants
  - Full suite of tests

Requirements
------

To install this project, please ensure that you have installed the following (install guides are provided on the respective websites):

  - [Git](http://git-scm.com)
  - A C++ compiler, e.g., [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/), [clang](http://clang.llvm.org/), [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)
  - [CMake](http://www.cmake.org)
  - [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org "Doxygen homepage") (optional)
  - [Gcov](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Gcov.html) (optional)
  - [LCOV](http://ltp.sourceforge.net/coverage/lcov.php) (optional)

The following dependencies are optional (see `Build options`):

  - [Catch2](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2) (unit testing library necessary for `BUILD_TESTS` build option)

These dependencies will be downloaded and configured automagically if not already present locally (requires an internet connection).

Installation
------

Run the following commands to download, build, and install this project.

    git clone https://www.github.com/openastro/astro
    cd astro
    git submodule init && git submodule update
    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake .. && cmake --build .

To install the header files, run the following from within the `build` directory:

    make install

Note that dependencies are installed by fetching them online, in case they cannot be detected on your local system. If the build process fails, check the error log given. Typically, building fails due to timeout. Simply run the `cmake --build .` command once more.

Build options
-------------

You can pass the following, general command-line options when running CMake:

  - `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX[=$install_dir]`: set path prefix for install script (`make install`); if not set, defaults to usual locations
  - `-DBUILD_DOXYGEN_DOCS[=ON|OFF (default)]`: build the [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org "Doxygen homepage") documentation ([LaTeX](http://www.latex-project.org/) must be installed with `amsmath` package)
  - `-DBUILD_TESTS[=ON|OFF (default)]`: build tests (execute tests from build-directory using `ctest -V`)
  - `-DBUILD_DEPENDENCIES[=ON|OFF (default)]`: force local build of dependencies, instead of first searching system-wide using `find_package()`

The following commands are conditional and can only be set if `BUILD_TESTS = ON`:

 - `-DBUILD_COVERAGE_ANALYSIS[=ON|OFF (default)]`: build code coverage using [Gcov](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Gcov.html) and [LCOV](http://ltp.sourceforge.net/coverage/lcov.php) (both must be installed; requires [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/) compiler; execute coverage analysis from build-directory using `make coverage`)

Pass these options either directly to the `cmake ..` command, e.g., to build the tests:

    cmake -DBUILD_TESTS=on ..

N.B.: Toggling options to build tests using `ccmake` does not work correctly, as the necessarily libraries are not download automagically!

Project structure
-------------

This project has been set up with a specific file/folder structure in mind. The following describes some important features of this setup:

  - `cmake/Modules`: Contains `CMake` modules, including `Findastro.cmake` module
  - `docs`: Contains code documentation generated by [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org "Doxygen homepage")
  - `include/astro`: Project header files (*.hpp)
  - `scripts`: Shell scripts used in [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/ "Travis CI homepage") build
  - `test`: Project test source files (*.cpp) that are provided to the [Catch2](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2 "Catch2 Github repository") framework
  - `.travis.yml`: Configuration file for [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/ "Travis CI homepage") build, including static analysis using [Coverity Scan](https://scan.coverity.com/ "Coverity Scan homepage") and code coverage using [Coveralls](https://coveralls.io "Coveralls.io homepage")
  - `CMakeLists.txt`: main `CMakelists.txt` file for project (should not need to be modified for basic build)
  - `Dependencies.cmake`: list of dependencies and automated build, triggered if dependency cannot be found locally
  - `Doxyfile.in`: [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org "Doxygen homepage") configuration file, adapted for generic use within project build (should not need to be modified)
  - `LICENSE.md`: license file for project
  - `ProjectFiles.cmake`: list of project source files to build
  - `README.md`: project readme file, parsed as main page for [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org "Doxygen homepage") documentation

Contributing
------------

Once you've made your great commits:

1. [Fork](https://github.com/openastro/astro/fork) astro
2. Create a topic branch - `git checkout -b my_branch`
3. Push to your branch - `git push origin my_branch`
4. Create a [Pull Request](http://help.github.com/pull-requests/) from your branch
5. That's it!

Disclaimer
------------

The copyright holders are not liable for any damage(s) incurred due to improper use of astro.

TODO
------------

@todo Find a way to provide an option to clean installation.

@todo Find a way to remove \cond \endcond workaround to get Doxygen to not throw warnings in readme.

@todo Find a way to have nested variables in `Doxygen` config file so that e.g., `@@CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME@_VERSION@` works.

@todo Add version detection in `CMake` module so that find_package respects minimum version required.
